- [Instructor] In this care portal training module, we'll be showing you how to enter and manage a new request in the CarePortal platform as a requesting agency, whether you use a web browser or the mobile app. This process only begins Of course, after the request has been identified in accordance with the internal procedures and protocols, your specific agency has identified. If you haven't been trained on what those procedures are, you must seek this guidance from the person designated as your organization's CarePortal representative Before using this resource. Let's start with entering a request through your @careportal.org. Whether it's your first request or your 10th, you can get started this way by clicking the submit request button at the top of the webpage. When you type your agency email address in the system we'll know whether you're a returning user or if it's your first request. In which case you'll be directed to add some basic information about yourself first. Once that step is completed, you'll be able to start entering the information about the family you've identified a request for starting with their zip code. The platform uses this to determine which churches it will notify about your request once it's approved within your organization. You'll only be allowed to enter requests for families in zip codes your agency has been approved for. And your agency rep will lay out what that approved area is. With the family's zip code entered the form expands to let you keep adding important information about this high impact opportunity based on the type of requests and options, you're approved for. The instructions for each field, make this part of the process pretty intuitive, but you'll want to rely on your agency rep for guidance on the internal procedures your agency has set. Just remember every request you submit represents your agency and the work you do in the broader community. There are a few best practices we've noticed over the years though that'll generally increase your chances of getting responses. First, the level of urgency, the vast majority of requests that come through CarePortal should be designated as normal. Since responses aren't guaranteed CarePortal is a resource you want to utilize before a situation becomes critically urgent if at all possible. This approach protects the sense of urgency for the less common requests that are entered with high or critical urgency. And for those critical cases, remember to pursue other resources as you normally would, just in case a response doesn't come through in time. On the next page, you have the chance to share the story. This is easily the most important part of your request because it's where you have the chance to really advocate for this family. Take some time here and explain without sharing anything confidential, like names or contact information, why this request is needed and what kind of impact it would make for the family. Remember who this requests will be seen by church leaders, their ministry teams and community responders, which means they probably won't understand agency language. So this should never be where you copy and paste the notes from your case file. Be practical and consider what questions people might have so that you can provide those answers right here in the story. For example, will this help the family become more independent or will they be in the same situation a month from now? Will the family be able to contribute any part of what they need? Or maybe what will happen if the request doesn't get met? Again, nothing that can't be shared publicly. should be included here, but you want to do what you can to show churches why this request should get a response. Churches are trusting your professional experience to enter requests that will make the greatest impact with the fewest barriers possible. So protect your credibility here because that's what will lead to the continued and growing support of churches in your area. Under the story, you'll be asked to clarify if what you're requesting for the family is for goods and services, or if it's exclusively financial in nature. Most care portal requests are for goods and services because there are things our responder could provide for the family such as furniture or repairs, but in the cases where meeting a request would call for a responder to help pay for maybe a portion of a utility bill or something like that. You would select yes for exclusively financial, which will default the needs section below to accustom need. You would simply relabel this item and then fill in the amount needed. One quick but really important recommendation for these minority cases, this link will give you some best practices for exclusively financial requests that should help you get responses more often. For goods and services requests, you'll check no here and this section of the form for adding each need is where you'll select the items you're requesting from a catalog of the most commonly requested items and services. You'll just select your way through here and for each item you add, you'll notice a standard estimated value that automatically appears, which you may need to customize occasionally to make sure it's realistic for the family circumstances. Down below these values will automatically combine for you to populate the total estimated value. On the responder side of the platform, CarePortal allows each item you enter to be provided by a different responder. We recommend keeping your list of items as simple and focused as possible though, because again, churches are relying on you as the caseworker to identify the highest impact needs. Once you submit your request, it'll be sent to your agency rep and potentially your supervisor, depending on the options your agency has chosen. This is where the request can get one more set of eyes on it to make sure it doesn't contain anything it shouldn't. And that it's a reasonable request to ask of local churches. If it's approved, you'll receive an email confirmation, which will tell you how many churches it was sent to and give you the links to update and close the request when necessary. Updating the request allows you to add to the story and change the status for each item you requested in case other resources meet part of the need. Closing the request is obvious, but you'll be asked for the reason why you're closing it along with some other very basic information. Hopefully you'll be closing it because the church responded and met the need. And then those cases it's really important to select which church or churches were involved. To make it easy, the list you're given to choose from will include the churches that made a response. This helps us track the impact being made by the local church, which in turn helps them recruit more of their members to respond. By the way, making your first CarePortal request also triggers a separate email to you that allows you to set your password and log into your own CarePortal dashboard. You can enter new requests from this dashboard page if you'd rather do it from here but the main thing is being able to manage your current and past requests in one place. So you don't have to go digging through emails. So that's how a request is entered, managed, and closed but how about what happens when a church responds to a request that you've entered? You'll get a notification like this, which provides you with the church responders information. At the same time, the church responder gets a similar email with your information. This sets you both up to reach out and begin the process of arranging for the connection to be made between the church and the family in need. It's important to make this contact between you and the church as quickly as possible even if that just means sending a quick text to the church, acknowledging their response, because churches are often ready to immediately start planning the logistics for serving. In most cases, responding churches are given the privilege of bringing the needed items to the family. Each church that is active on the CarePortal platform has been trained on how to make safety a priority but we do understand that in some cases, circumstances may require you to receive the items on behalf of the family instead. But overall CarePortal is often used for opportunities to help a vulnerable family, make a supportive non-agency connection in the community. The family may need a bit of assistance and encouragement from you to help make this happen and it's not uncommon for caseworkers to be present at the day and time the church is able to meet the request. The church, likewise may also need to rely on your professional opinion and experience as they begin to learn about the family and how they can serve and support them most effectively. If your agency has approved the use of the CarePortal mobile app entering a new request will require all of the same information as what we just covered. This app adds a bunch of helpful features though, including the ability to upload a private photo for the request. It's only seen internally by yourself and leaders within your organization, which makes it an easy way to keep any consent forms on file that your agency requires before submitting a CarePortal request. You also have the ability to chat with church responders and customize your notification settings. A separate shorter video is available in the training section of the app, which gives you a more detailed look. If you have any questions, please first contact your agency's CarePortal representative. It's likely they have the answers, but if not, we're happy to provide the support. And most of all, thank you, not just for the way you are serving these families and kids in crisis, but also forgiving the faith community, a chance to get more involved in this critical work. We're looking forward to seeing some amazing collaboration that strengthens your community in a way like you've never seen before.